Convert example notebooks to Markdown files (#243)
blackjax-devs/blackjax: examples/README.md

# Examples

> When you add a new sampling fuctions, please add an Exmaple Notebook to describe how the function is used. Before push your function and its corresponding notebook to `Main` branch, please convert the notebook into text file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you add a new sampling function, please add an example here to describe how the function is used. Blackjax uses [Jupytext](https://github.com/mwouts/jupytext) to store Jupyter notebooks as Markdown files.
```

> ## Converting Notebook Files to Text Files

Reviewer 2: Could we add a few sentences on how to edit existing examples?

Author: Sure. Can we do something like this, what do you think?

## Converting Notebook Files to Text Files

Please convert your `.ipynb` to `markdown` before commit your example to this repo. You can use the command below:

```python
jupytext example/your_example_notebook.ipynb --to myst
```

Once the example file is converted to a Markdown file, you have two options for editing:

1. Edit the Markdown version as it is a regular Markdown file.
2. Edit the Notebook version and convert it to a Markdown file with the command above. `Jupytext` can handle the change if the example has the same file name.

The script will produce the `Markdown` version of your example notebook. Please make sure you add only the `Markdown` version to your commit.

Reviewer 2: LG overall - BTW is there a way to convert the .md file back to .ipynb?

Author: `jupytext examples/example_file.md --to notebook` should do it.

Reviewer 2: Nice - please go ahead and add these into the README

Author: Got it. Added and pushed.

> Please convert your `.ipynb` to `markdown` before commit your example to this repo. You can use the command below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you implemented your example in a notebook you can convert your `.ipynb` file to Markdown using the command below:
```

```python
jupytext example/your_example_notebook.ipynb --to myst
```

> The script will produce the `Markdown` version of your example notebook. Please make sure you add only the `Markdown` version to your commit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The script will produce the `Markdown` version of your example notebook. Please make sure to only commit the  `Markdown` file.
```

## Composing Documentation on Sphinx-Doc

We use `Sphinx` to generate document for this repo. You may also want to test whether all examples are executed correctly for documentation. We are highly encoruge you to do so on your local machine when you make change to any notebooks in `Examples`. Please follow instructions below:

1. Add your documentation to `docs/examples.rst`

2. Run the command below:

    ```shell
    make build-docs
    ```

3. Verify the generated documentation in `docs/builds`

> ### Execution Times

Reviewer: Just saw that, very useful!
